So in Eclipse, I am going to copy the last class and paste it.
And call this new class l06 for lecture six.
I'm going to give it the name of eye frames and click.
Okay.
And then going to double click that class and I am going to delete all the code up to the driver dot
gets method.
So the first thing I need to do is update the address.
So I am going to get the euro to the iframes age and I am going to place that like so.
So now selenium will go to this particular web page and I want to interact with this first iframe.
So the tests that I would like to do simply to begin with is to just click on this toggle menu button
like so.
To do that.
I'm going to go to Eclipse and I'm going to write driver thoughts switch to.
Dot frame.
And you can see there's a number of methods there.
So the two most commonly used is frame with iNts as a parameter.
And what this does is it takes a index value of the iframe or the string name of the frame itself.
So each frame has a unique IP.
So I'm going to use the first one.
So I'm going to be using index values.
So I'm going to click that and you can see the default value is zero.
So to explain how the iframe index him works on a web page as this is the first iframe on the page is
an index value of zero.
As this is the second frame, it's got an index value of one.
And if there was another one, then that next one would have an index value of two.
So this selenium code will switch the selenium driver focus to wireframe with an index value of zero.
So next, if I go back to the Web page, I'm going to right click and inspect.
And within this actual airframe itself, I'm going to get the selector tool.
Focus within the frame and click on the manual toggle button.
And you can see in the DOM is highlighted a section.
And if we look up and keep following it upwards, we will see that there's an iframe tag.
So that selector tool has just found a element within the iframe.
And if I look at runner ox velocity.
You can see that there's some options here.
Some selectors I can use.
So I'm simply going to take that second one and I'm going to copy it.
And back in eclipse I'm going to write driver dots find elements by CSF selector in the double quotes.
I'm going to place that value and I'm going to simply use the click command like so.
So now I'm going to save this class and try running it.
And notice it just interacted with the menu toggle within the frame itself.
Now, if I wanted to go back to the main web page, I would need to use a command such as driver dot,
switch to dot.
And if we look through here, we can see that there is an option for payment frame.
So if I select that.
It was semi-colon at the end and then copy that code.
Because remember.
The iFrame is a copy of the actual automation test and web page, so that selector will also exist here.
Policeman, you toggle button.
So if I go back to the code and try running this again.
Let's see what happens.
So it happened really quickly.
But what happened there was that the selenium a focus shifted to this first iframe and click this menu
icon.
It then switched back out to the parents eye frame, which is the main web page, and then clicked on
it here.
So we switched in and then switched out, and that was all done by the simple code.
Now.
How about if I wanted to interact?
With this I frame.
How about if I wanted to press the play button?
So remember what I said, and that is that we need to switch focus using the index value.
So this is the index for the first time frame.
So I need to now switch to.
The iFrame with an index value of one.
So I'm going to write driver dot switch to frame and pass the value of one.
I need to find a locator for this play button.
So I'm going to right click and inspect the page.
I'm going to get to select the tool.
And I'm going to focus on that button and click it.
And if I go to random philosophy.
I am going to take this second.
Let me just select it again because I don't think I've selected it.
Right.
Let me just open.
It's a little bit wider.
There we go.
So I am going to take the second CSC locator and copy it.
I'm going to go back to Eclipse and I'm going to write driver dot find elements by set a selector.
Pace that value and use the click command.
So I am going to slow this test down so we can see it better.
So I am going to add a friend.
Don't sleep here.
Of 2 seconds.
And I'm also going to add another one.
Just after this line.
And you can see those errors.
And the reason for that is I need to add a froze declaration like so.
So I'm going to save this now and try running it.
And let's see what happens.
So it's interactive.
The first time frame when back to the main page.
And then it clicked the play button on the second frame.
So we was able to do that by using the switch to method and then using the frame method a pass in an
index value.
So just to quickly run through the code again, we go to the iframe web page.
We use drive a dot switch to dot frame and that frame is the index value of the first iframe on the
web page on an interact with an element within that iframe.
I then use driver dot switch to have a frame and that will take you to the main eye frame, which is
my automation testing web page.
I then interact with the toggle menu button of the main page.
I then use driver dot switched to again, but this time for the free method I pass the index value of
one and the youtube video is has an index value of one.
And then I interact with the play button and click it.
So I hope that was a good introduction to life frames and you've learned how to handle them.
Thank you for watching.